Kyle Nelson | HTTP and Web Basics | 03/11/2021

In short terms, a majority of this lesson was focused on 3 aspects of web communcation. First - Internet address communication due to DNS and the structures it provides. Second - Default communication paths for each machine (think ports and protocols). Third - The "9" verbs used to request data from a website (illustrated below). 
======

[DNS and address resolution]:
Takes an IP and converst it to a name for easy lookup and more importantly remembering and referencing by human eyes.

[Default ports/protocols for communication]:

Most common ports include the following
{
20 - File Transfer Protocol (FTP) Data Transfer

21 - File Transfer Protocol (FTP) Command Control

22 - Secure Shell (SSH)

23 - Telnet - Remote login service, unencrypted text messages

25 - Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) E-mail Routing

53 - Domain Name System (DNS) service

80 - Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) used in World Wide Web

110 - Post Office Protocol (POP3) used by e-mail clients to retrieve e-mail from a server

119 - Network News Transfer Protocol (NNTP)

123 - Network Time Protocol (NTP)

143 - Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP) Management of Digital Mail

161 - Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)

194 - Internet Relay Chat (IRC)

443 - HTTP Secure (HTTPS) HTTP over TLS/SSL
}


["9" Verbs of requests]:
These methods are how data is requested or otherwise modified from a website. The first 5 are the most commonly used.

GET - The GET method requests a representation of the specified resource. Requests using GET should only retrieve data.
HEAD - The HEAD method asks for a response identical to that of a GET request, but without the response body.
POST - The POST method is used to submit an entity to the specified resource, often causing a change in state or side effects on the server.
PUT - The PUT method replaces all current representations of the target resource with the request payload.
DELETE - The DELETE method deletes the specified resource.
CONNECT - The CONNECT method establishes a tunnel to the server identified by the target resource.
OPTIONS - The OPTIONS method is used to describe the communication options for the target resource.
TRACE - The TRACE method performs a message loop-back test along the path to the target resource.
PATCH - The PATCH method is used to apply partial modifications to a resource.
